Old Faithful is the name of a geyser in Yellowstone National Park in the United States.
The geyser was given this name because of the relative regularity of its eruptions.
Today, it erupts thousands of liters or gallons of boiling water about every 90 minutes on average.
After Old Faithful erupts, the timing of its next eruption can be predicted about 90% of the time within a 10-minute variation.
And it's not even the most regular geyser in the park. Isn't that amazing?
It shouldn't surprise us that the word faithful is applied to inanimate things, since we see faithfulness and dependability in creation.
For example, Psalm 8937 describes the moon as a faithful witness in the skies because of its reliability.
Its appearance in the sky follows a fixed pattern, and it faithfully completes its orbit around the earth every 27.3 days.
While we admire faithfulness in creation, we especially appreciate people who make faithfulness their way of life.
Such individuals are reliable, dependable, and trustworthy.
Let's read about this quality of faithfulness at 1 Corinthians 4-2.
In this regard, what is expected of stewards is that they be found faithful.
The term stored can mean house manager. His work could include caring for his master's business, property, and other servants.
That's a lot of responsibility. But think of this.
A stored might have many fine qualities and abilities, yet none of them would matter if he was irresponsible, disloyal, and unfaithful to his master.
Faithfulness is essential to be an effective and successful stored.
As true Christians, we must prove ourselves faithful and trustworthy.
How does Jehovah feel about faithfulness?
In the same way as King David did, who wrote at Psalm 1016,
I will look to the faithful ones of the earth so that they may dwell with me.
Using a similar expression, the prophet Jeremiah wrote the words found at Jeremiah 53.
O Jehovah, do your eyes not look for faithfulness?
And Psalm 373 encourages us to reside in the earth and act with faithfulness.
So the theme of this month's broadcast is, make faithfulness your way of life.
We'll examine two examples of faithfulness, and then we'll consider some practical ways that we can prove ourselves faithful.
We began our discussion by talking about the example of a geyser.
A geyser might be a fitting symbol of the faithfulness of humans, because geysers continually erupt, but they do so unpredictably.
So a geyser would be a poor representation of the unchanging faithfulness of our faithful creator, as Jehovah is described at 1 Peter 419.
The ever-present sun and moon are more appropriate symbols of the unchangeableness of his faithfulness.
In his words to the nation of Israel, Moses stated as found at Deuteronomy 32-4,
the rock perfected his activity for all his ways or justice, a god of faithfulness who is never unjust.
Did Jehovah prove faithful to that nation? Of course he did.
When Moses spoke those words to the Israelites, they may have remembered the time when Jehovah had faithfully brought their forefathers out of Egypt, and rescued them at the Red Sea.
He had faithfully preserved millions of people alive during the Israelites' 40-year journey in the wilderness, and he had led them to the border of the Promised Land.
Moses' successor Joshua also could testify to Jehovah's faithfulness.
As a child growing up in Egypt, Joshua must have come to know of Jehovah's promise to give the Israelites a land of their own.
When the time came to enter that land, Joshua was an eyewitness of how Jehovah fought in behalf of his people.
Joshua saw the walls of Jericho fall down flat. He saw the sun stand still until the amurites could be routed.
In time one nation after another was defeated, because the faithful God was fighting for Israel.
Once they defeated their enemies, Joshua could say to the nation what is recorded at Joshua 23-14.
You will know with all your heart and with all your soul that not one word out of all the good promises that Jehovah your God has spoken to you has failed.
They have all come true for you, not one word of them has failed, not one word.
Joshua had seen that Jehovah faithfully kept his promises.
Well, you can probably think of many other examples of Jehovah's faithfulness, such as the fulfillment of Messianic prophecies.
The fulfillment of the promise to feed God's people spiritually in our day by means of the faithful and discrete slave, and so on.
Jehovah sets the perfect example for us in showing faithfulness.
The thought of making faithfulness our way of life can also be illustrated in the example of the three Hebrew companions of Daniel.
When they were young, Hanna Naya, Michelle, and Azaraya said an excellent example of faithfulness in what some people may view as a small thing.
Do you remember how they were pressured to eat unclean food?
Apparently, their faithful parents must have instructed them to adhere strictly to the dietary restrictions found in the Mosaic law.
Jehovah considered these so important that after listing such restrictions, he stated the words recorded at Leviticus 1145.
You must be holy, because I am holy.
The King of Babylon assigned the three Hebrew use and other young men a daily ration from his delicacies, among which were foods forbidden by the law.
The three Hebrews could have reasoned that the dietary restrictions of the Mosaic law were not so important, at least not when compared to the Ten Commandments.
But no, those faithful use were concerned with living up to all features of God's law.
They determined not to pollute themselves with such food and requested to eat vegetables.
The matter of which tasted better was of no concern to them in this important decision.
Daniel asked that they be permitted to try out this diet for ten days.
The result?
At the end of the ten days, Jehovah blessed those young men for their faithfulness.
They looked better and healthier than any of the other use.
Was the choice of food a small thing?
Not to Jehovah.
It was of serious concern to him, and the young Hebrews had his view of the matter.
Their faithfulness in what may have seemed a small thing, prepared them for a bigger trial in the future.
Hananiah, Michelle, and Aziraya had already established a pattern of making faithfulness their way of life,
when King Nebuchadnezzar ordered them to bow before an image of gold on the plains of Dora.
In faithfulness to Jehovah, they refused, and they made that decision, despite knowing that it would result in their being thrown into a fiery furnace.
As we read their words to the King, as recorded at Daniel 3, 17, and 18,
see if you can sense their faithfulness.
If it must be, our God whom we serve is able to rescue us from the burning fiery furnace, O King, and to rescue us from your hand.
But even if he does not, let it be known to you, O King, that we will not serve your gods, or worship the image of gold that you have set up.
That courageous stand resulted in their being thrown into the furnace, but as we know, Jehovah rescued them.
What an outstanding witness they provided not only to the King and his court, but also to all those who through the centuries have read about that account in the book of Daniel.
The three Hebrews looked to Jehovah as their sovereign, and they proved themselves faithful in both large and small matters.
Well, how can we imitate Jehovah and the three Hebrews so that we too can make faithfulness our way of life?
Jesus statement recorded at Luke 1610 can help. He said,
the person faithful in what is least is faithful also in much.
Those words uttered almost 2,000 years ago are still as true as ever.
Now, it may be that you'll never be asked to take a stand that demonstrates what some might view as outstanding faithfulness, as was shown by the three Hebrews when they didn't bow down to the image.
But your constancy in doing what is right, your reliability and dependability in small things gives evidence of your deep appreciation for what it means to be faithful.
Psalm 3123 assures us that Jehovah protects the faithful, and this is true even when we're faithful and seemingly small matters.
There are many areas of our lives in which we need to display faithfulness to Jehovah.
For example, having a regular share in the ministry each month and reporting our participation.
Faithfulness to our marriagemate is very important to Jehovah.
How about showing our faithfulness by staying neutral with regard to the political and social conflicts of the world?
Do we make faithfulness our way of life when it comes to our personal conduct each day?
During a personal study session or family worship, why not consider how you can continue to be faithful in these areas?
And what about you young ones? We're so proud of you when you prove your faithfulness to Jehovah.
We know that many of you face tests of your faith that involve the pressure to engage in immorality and in other forms of bad behavior.
It's one thing to know what to do or what choice you should make, but quite another to have the courage to do what is right when you're under pressure or temptation.
The three Hebrews could have concluded that they could get away with eating the food God's law prohibited since they were far away from their parents and friends.
They could also have reason that it was the King's order so they had no choice but to do what they were told.
Besides, other Jews may have readily accepted the food arrangements and viewed it as a privilege.
But the Hebrew Jews knew that, as mentioned in Proverbs 153, the eyes of Jehovah are everywhere.
Those Jews were determined to remain faithful.
Young ones, if you learn to deal successfully with trials that some may view as small things, then you'll be able to face bigger tests of your faith.
Never forget that the benefits of faithfulness far outweigh any temporary relief that comes from compromising.
Let's consider one more area that involves faithfulness, our dress and grooming.
How glad we were to learn in the 2024 governing body update number two of the adjustments to our standard of dress at theocratic events and in the ministry.
We commend you brothers and sisters for wanting to dress and be groomed in a dignified way on those occasions.
But how can we show our faithfulness and our selection of clothing during our leisure time, when on vacation, or when it's social gatherings with our fellow Christians?
1 Timothy 2 9 and 10 admonishes our Christian sisters to adorn themselves in appropriate dress with modesty and soundness of mind in the way that is proper for women professing devotion to God.
Of course, the principle of modesty applies to Christian brothers too.
Also, 2 Corinthians 6, 3 and 4 states that in no way are we giving any cause for stumbling so that no fault may be found with our ministry.
But in every way we recommend ourselves as God's ministers.
In every way includes our choice of dressing grooming.
An article entitled, are you faithful in all things in the July 15, 2005 issue of the watchtower states this.
Our dress needs to be practical and presentable. This serves as a witness to others who observe us.
In fact, we should always be appropriately attired.
To some, faithfulness in the choice of clothing may seem to be a small matter. But in God's eyes, it is important.
We should remember this when it comes to our choice of dressing grooming. Well, what will you remember from this consideration?
Most of us admire faithfulness in creation. However, we especially appreciate people who have made faithfulness their way of life.
We have outstanding examples of faithfulness recorded in the Bible that we can imitate, such as Jehovah, the Three Hebrews, and many others.
The principle found at Luke 1610 can help us to be faithful not only in large matters, but also in what some may regard as small matters.
Brothers and sisters, we encourage you to continue to prove your faithfulness to Jehovah.
As noted at Proverbs 28-20, a faithful man will receive many blessings.
Of course, our main reason for being faithful is not because of what we get out of it, but because of our love for Jehovah.
And we can be sure that Jehovah will continue to bless us richly if we make faithfulness our way of life.